# Documentation for the Python Package

Most of the documentation can be found in either a Markdown format (used for generating the static web pages) or as a Jupyter notebook (includes all code and can be run top-down). (Of course, while notebooks are provided for all documentation pages, sometimes it doesn't make sense to run the notebook top down, or at all, as some notebooks will just be markdown.)

Jupyter notebooks are in the [notebooks](notebooks) subdirectory, and Markdown files are in the [content](content) subdirectory.

## Modifying the documentation

The contents of the notebooks and the Markdown are synced using the `jupytext` package. First, make sure the dependencies are installed (recommended in a virtual environment).
```shell
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

Then go ahead and start up the jupyter server, *from this directory*.
```shell
jupyter serverextension enable jupytext
jupyter notebook  # or lab
```

Then, when you navigate to one of the source Markdown files, Jupyter will open it as a Jupyter notebook (and sync changes to both the Markdown and corresponding actual Jupyter notebook).

## Documentation style

The documentation roughly follows the [Divio system](https://documentation.divio.com/) for documentation:
- [usage](content/python/tutorials): basic usage tutorials, getting started, etc.
- [integrations](content/python/integrations): how-to guides for working with this package and certain other packages
- reference: API reference and other technical docs (autogenerated)
- datasets: describes each dataset in human terms, things to watch out for, how the splits were determined, etc. (may also be autogenerated?)

## Building the documentation locally

The deployed version is built on GitHub Actions and then deployed directly to GitHub Pages. To test locally, you'll first need to install the [hugo static site generator](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) (installing the binary will be the best option usually), and make sure you fetch the theme (which is included in this repository as a git submodule):
```shell
# get submodules while cloning (repository url is different between https or ssh)
git clone --recurse-submodules <repository url>

# or if you've already cloned
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

and then run this command from the docs directory:
```shell
hugo server
```
to get a live, updating version of the current docs.

